Why do these intended learning outcomes exist?  Who has an interest?

I think at least one of the purposes of the master’s degree is as a way to aggregate a person’s skillset. Instead of writing all the different things that are listed under the intended learning outcomes we can simply write Master’s degree in something and “most” people would understand what it means.

A prerequisite for this to work is to have this skillset specified and standardised. Without this standardisation regarding the competence the master’s degree entails it would lose a lot of its value. If each school had their own definition it would make things a lot harder for the different stakeholders.

People or organisations who have an interest in this are for instance businesses hiring people with certain competences, the organisations in charge of creating this standard and the students themselves in order to make sure that they fulfill these goals.

Is Computer Science special as a field of academic study?

The first thing that comes to mind when comparing to other fields is that it is a lot younger. I’m not sure if that has any effect on how it is studied or anything else to make it more special though.

Another thing that might make it more special than other fields is that basically all other fields use computers in their research or have problems that are best solved with computer programs. Finding these solutions most likely needs expertise in computer science as well as knowledge about the specific problem domain. This could be biology, economics or health care for instance. For this reason I think it’s common for computer scientists to try to gain knowledge in other fields. There is at least some evidence of this in the fact that one of the choices for the track in this master’s programme is Computational Biology.

Find one or two of the Master's degree learning outcomes that you think could be more clearly addressed in the courses you are currently taking.  If possible, be specific about which courses and how.

I think most of them are covered in the courses we take. The one about ethical skills, cited below, has been lacking in many courses previous to this year. It seems actions are taken against this which is evident in the AI course for instance where they have added an ethics homework. I don’t really feel like the lack of ethics assignments in the courses we take is something bad and would rather just have maybe one short course for ethics only and then be done with it.

“Demonstrate the ability to make assessments in the main field of study informed by relevant disciplinary, social and ethical issues and also to demonstrate awareness of ethical aspects of research and development work”

We have plans to change the "track" structure by replacing the current pools of courses with smaller (15 hp) blocks consisting of one theory and one project course, both tightly connected to a local research group.  The students would then have to take two such blocks as their 30 hp specialization.  Do you think this may change future students' chances to get "considerable degree of specialised knowledge in certain areas of the field as well as insight into current research and development work"? Can you think of any other consequences?

I think it sounds like a good idea with regards to the cited intended learning outcome. However, I also think it’s a bit negative to limit the students’ choices. Not everyone wants to do research and might prefer to take courses that would give them knowledge that could give an edge for a position at a certain company.

A positive outcome would be that these two blocks/courses would really complement each other whereas when the students have a free choice, the courses could be almost completely independent.

Only first year students (prosamm14): Are you planning to change your study technique in some way this year?

I will most likely not change anything at first at least, which is basically: Start studying early and continuously, do assignments in time.

I feel like it has worked for me so far and will continue with it until it does not work anymore should that happen.